---
title: (Weekly check-in) Tries
author: Tammy Metz
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

### What did you do last week?
- Learned about tries
- Planned mock coding interviews for the end of July with two other classmates
- Filmed and uploaded [video of me attempting another problem about a binary tree](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ojW_VZDUXEw). 
- Wrote reflection of video <!--more-->([below](#reflection-on-this-weeks-video))

### What do you plan to do this week?
- Review heaps
- Choose a question and film it
- Write reflection of the video

### Are there any impediments in your way?
- I was pretty sick last week, and not that mentally in the game, so filmed later than I really wanted to.

### Reflection on the process you used last week, how can you make the process work better?
- I definitely need to stick with the schedule, but to be honest if I had been scheduled for a real interview, I would have called to reschedule.
- I want more time and more problems with each data structure, so I have updated the proposal schedule to spread out the remaining data structures over multiple weeks, and took off the algorithms (of course, all of these data structures require algorithms to use them anyway)


## Reflection on this week's video

### Video link
[Click here for video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ojW_VZDUXEw)

### I need to get used to
- Being cool with Googling during a problem.  Some places don't allow this, but a lot do, and I need to stop feeling weird about it.  I probably would have found out about Python's heap methods if I had googled it.

### Things I'm thinking about
- Restructuring the remaining weeks to spend multiple weeks on the same data structure.  Maybe I'll cut out the algorithms and replace them with part IIs of the data structures.

### What went well
- I actually said "I think I need to use a heap" and I was right (even though I wasn't sure how)!
- My brute force solution worked
- I didn't give up, and was able to come up with a brute force solution, even though it wasn't ideal
- I sketched out some examples before I dove into coding
- I realized I was about to stop talking for a bit, and said that out loud ("I don't have a good idea for starting, so I'm going to look at this example")
- I threw in a quickie time complexity analysis
- I manually tested my method with an example, which allowed me to fix things before I tried running it

### What could go better next time
- Still lots of dead air
- Now that I have looked at solutions, I learned the following:
  - There are built-in heap methods in Python, and I could have used them (or at least, the solution I looked at used them and didn't import anything extra...just used methods like `heapify()` etc.).  I believe what I'm looking for is `heapq.heapify()` etc.
