---
title: (Weekly check-in) Heaps week 1
author: Tammy Metz
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

### What did you do last week?
- Started learning about heaps
- Filmed and uploaded [video of me attempting one more problem about a binary tree](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FermGddVS68).  Almost got a solution, but not quite.
- Wrote reflection of video <!--more-->([below](#reflection-on-this-weeks-video))

### What do you plan to do this week?
- Continue to review heaps
- Choose a question and film it
- Write reflection of the video

### Are there any impediments in your way?
- I am still trying to get back on schedule so I am not doing things at the last minute.  This week has been a heavy week in my other class, but this weekend should help a lot as I'll be done with my exam in my other class at that point.  Having a day off on the 4th of July will also be a big help.

### Reflection on the process you used last week, how can you make the process work better?
- Nothing to change at the moment


## Reflection on this week's video

### Video link
[Click here for video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FermGddVS68)

### I need to get used to
- Recursion.  Recursion, recursion, recursion, recursion!!

### Things I'm thinking about
- This week's video went on for longer than I said I would (well past 20 minutes), but I was doing that intentionally because I felt very close to a solution.  Since I was making progress, I think it was a good use of time.
- I never figured out why it being a binary search tree was significant

### What went well
- I think I did well several times in making my thoughts known, when I wasn't sure about the approach I was thinking about
- Every strategy I thought of and did not use, it turns out someone's solution did (e.g. throwing all of the nodes into an array).  So I was really on the right track for most of the time.
- Again, I walked through code using example -- this is becoming habit now, which is good

### What could go better next time
- I should have read the documentation about combining dictionaries before trying to use it
- Now that I have looked at solutions, I learned the following:
  - I was actually correct to use a dictionary!
  - I could have kept the dictionary outside of the recursive method and just updated it at each node.  No need to do fancy combining of dictionaries that I was trying to do.
