---
title: (Weekly check-in) Heaps week 3
author: Tammy Metz
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
---

### What did you do last week?
- Filmed and uploaded [video of me attempting one more heap problem](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cxcg7ep6lU8)
- Wrote reflection of video <!--more-->([below](#reflection-on-this-weeks-video))
- Wrote mid-semester project update ([below](#mid-semester-project-update))


### What do you plan to do this week?
- Review hash tables
- Choose a question and film it
- Write reflection of the video

### Mid-Semester project update
**Where am I in relationship to the goals I proposed:**

I have been making steady progress through various data structures.  A few weeks ago I decided to drop my plans for algorithms and spend extended time with each data structure.  That has been working well, and this week I actually felt confident about a heap problem!

I have [videod a problem every week](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL_Gen6ulpgkgKvtbZrww_NdD_WKx911wf) and [reflected on every video]({{ site.baseurl }}{% link reflections-list.md %}).  This has helped me increase my self-awareness about how I present myself and how I engage and verbaluze my thoughts.  It has also increased my confidence in approaching problems.  One thing I have been doing that wasn't explicitly mentioned in my original project proposal has been reading solutions from other people after I attempt a problem.  This has really helped me to see other ways of approaching problems, and I have found this very helpful.  I will continue doing this for the remainder of the semester.

This had been a tentative plan, but I was indeed able to organize some inter-student mock interviews, and am looking forward to them in a few weeks.

**Updated goals for the remainder of the semester**
- Continue to grow confidence in approaching technical interviews

**Revised schedule:**
- **Week 8:** Hash tables
- **Week 9:** Hash tables
- **Week 10:** Recursion, Binary search
- **Week 11:** sorts (Quicksort, Mergesort, Bubble sort)
- **Week 12:** Finalize project

## Reflection on this week's video

### Video link
[Click here for video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cxcg7ep6lU8)


### What went well
- For the first time, I immediately knew what to do and got the answer
- I got the answer in an acceptable amount of time (I seem to be getting better/faster, at least I'd like to believe that)
- I made myself work through the examples first, even though I was pretty confident about how I wanted to proceed
- I solved a medium!

### What could go better next time
- I still need to try to use documentation less
- I should have verbalized why calculating distance to (0, 0) just required squaring each number and not the full formula
- I need to remember to include a return statement because I have forgotten to do this several times now
- Now that I have looked at solutions, I learned the following:
  - Quick select would have had a better time complexity
  - You could also do this with max heaps by multiplying the distances by -1 and using `heapq.heappushpop` to remove the smallest item and add the new item, which I found interesting
